Design regarding cooling of the vapor:
In portable vaporizers one big challenge is to keep both, the vapor cool, as well as the actual device. This invention can be adapted to handle both issues, and depending on design targets it can be implemented either with maximum total energy efficiency, or alternatively if that is not crucial, to just focus more on the cooling of vapor even with reduced efficiency.
The vapor that gets released after air has passed herbs, is very hot, often in the region between 150-200 degrees Celsius. The goal is to reduce its temperature in such a way that inhaling it is pleasant and does not cause irritation of the airways of a person. 
The innovation features a path for the hot vapor / air that allows the air to be in contact with conductive surface, such as metal like aluminum, anodized aluminum, copper, silver, gold, stainless steel etc. This can be handled for example by using multiple small diameter tubular shapes to conduct the heat to the metal surface, or for example creating a region where the hot air is moving from side to side, in turbulence way improving heat transfer. There can also be simply layers of metal sheets, assembled in such a way that there is own compartments for the hot air / vapor, and for the incoming cool air. In a vaporizer, the air usually flows due to the negative pressure caused by the user’s inhalation. So essentially, any time the vapor is flowing out of the device, similar amount of unheated fresh air flows in the device. The invention uses this fresh airflow as a way to cool the vapor, and as a result the fresh air gets preheated already before even entering the main heater.  This will improve the efficiency as the battery energy is not lost as a heat that would just need to be dissipated like in most devices on market, this invention allows the heat of the hot vapor to be recycled back to the fresh incoming air, and this way directly reducing the needed energy to heat up the air and improving the efficiency of operation. 
Now the efficiency can be improved by correct material choices and mass of the components. In general, for the heat transfer plates / tubes / features, ideally heat conductivity would be very high, and on the other hand the heat capacity of the parts as low as possible, that we don’t have to store energy in the cooling features. This becomes more important, if the device is often used just for quick, short inhalations, instead of longer sessions. Very lightweight construction allows most heat be recycled even in this scenario, whereas a heavier construction would store more energy in itself until it starts to release it to the fresh air in similar amounts. In this invention, the heat is directly transferred between the compartments of hot vapor and fresh air, but the actual air paths stay isolated mechanically. Similar ideas are used even in apartments in the ventilation systems, to capture the heat of outgoing air and the metal structure with fins conducts the heat and the fresh cold air passes these metal structures, getting heated in the process with the energy form the outgoing air and this way reducing the energy needed to warm the air. This invention basically adapts the same idea to the herbal vaporizers.
We have multiple designs, one is to have a cooling block / panel that clips on top of the device panel, this has the benefit that almost all of the surface area of the device profile shape can be used to contain the cooling / heat exchange features, such as plates and channels or tubes. The benefit is that now the height of the device doesn’t have to increase much, even for an efficient cooling and heat exchange. 
Alternative design features a vaporizer with a separating top part, that consists of the cooling / heat exchanger unit. And it can be implemented even inside a tube. 

In practice the construction can be a metal structure, made for example from cast aluminum, or machined or pressed aluminum, stainless steel, or copper plated with some other material such as gold. Air is directed so that on opposing sides of the plate, is going either hot vapor or the fresh air, and with structures, tubes or other means the air is directed to the next plate in a way that the two different air paths stay separated and isolated from each other. Vapor path can be routed through double walls, spiral tunnels, or around the edges of the unit. It also can be for example simply multiple tubes that allow the hot vapor to flow out of unit, and these tubes are conductively connected to metal structures that are in the airflow of the fresh air, with enough surface contact between the air and surfaces to allow the heat to efficiently transfer to the air and this way the cooler temperature stays moderate and is able to cool the outgoing vapor, and same time the fresh air gets preheated. 

The benefits of this are numerous:
Efficient cooling of vapor, often cooling units have certain amount of heat they can store until vapor starts to get hot. This design allows the cooling unit automatically efficiently transfer the heat to the incoming fresh air, and have in practice unlimited cooling capacity. 
Also the fact that the incoming air gets preheated, not only increases the battery life and efficiency, but also improves the whole vaporization process since the main heater has now smaller temperature increase needed to perform if the incoming air is for example 30 degrees Celsius warmer than normally, the hearer has much less work to do and it can improve the performance of the vaporizer directly.
This design also allows the vaporizer exterior to stay cooler, as it doesn’t need to just dissipate the heat but it is recycled. 
